So in the last lecture we talked about the potential issues that are being our global query scope to
our particular model can cause.
So we've disabled the strict option for a little bit to see how we can overcome this by just ignoring
the standards and doing what we want anyway.
But as I've said that's not the best approach to just put the problems under the carpet and ignore them.
Now what we actually have if is for example we added this global query scope to order the models by
their creation date for all the queries that were generated for older models so for example in this
case when we wanted blog posts that were the most recent ones but we also wanted that with the count
of comments.
And for example you might think that it's actually doesn't make any sense to sort comments with this
query when we only want to get the count of comments for each blog post.
And yes it doesn't really make any sense to always add this sorting.
So let's keep this strict option enabled and what we will do as we also have seen a problem with this
latest scope added to the blog post when we fetch the blog posts count of blog posts added for each
individual user.
We will just disabled this query scope so we'll do that in blog posts and also We'll disable that for
comments.
And in this lecture I will show you how to add local query scopes which you have to tell Lavell to use
explicitly and we'll see why it is usually and most of the time a better solution.
So now let's go to our blog post model and see how we can add local query scope.
So this is actually very simple.
You just have to add the method to your model which starts with the name scope and then followed by
the name of your local query scope.
So our scope was called latest.
So let's add scope latest to our blog post.
And the argument would be the query actually this would be the query builder.
So we can even type hint that so lets up builder and this should be illuminate database eloquent builder
so that's our local query scope.
You can see that this builder imports should be added automatically by Visual Studio code.
If it's not then mind that you should add up here what we can do with that is we can modify the query
by doing what we did with our latest scope global queries.
So we'll add order by
static created out.
So we are using the constant which is defined as the name of that field when we use timestamps and by
default we want to sort.
In descending order.
So the newest blog posts first.
OK.
So we have just defined our local query scope.
Now how do we use this local query scope.
So it is not applied to all the queries automatically by Laura.
Now you have to explicitly call that.
So let's see where we should use that.
So we fetch a list of blog posts currently at least only in this place so instead of using the default.
So getting all the blog posts with count of comments what we now can do is we can use this latest and
we can call it as a method.
So we do latest and this will return an instance of the query builder so we can add some more queries
to it.
Like with count.
So let's save the changes.
And you've seen that we had this error.
And now if you will refresh the page you still see that our blog posts are properly sorted by the date
but if you will go to a particular blog post now you can see that unfortunately the comments aren't
sorted anymore.
So here is like one from three weeks ago.
Then there is one from two months ago and another one from one week ago.
So we can also add local query scope to the comment.
So let's do that.
We can even copy this fragment to the comment model
so let's paste it here.
But the only thing we have to remember about is adding this builder so we can either copy that from
that log post model or just selected from the list of proposed objects so Visual Studio code will add
up for us.
Okay so save the changes and now let's see where do we need to sort the comments by the creation date.
So definitely not here because here we just want to get the count of comments but we need that in this
particular place.
So we are fetching one blog post but we want to fetch it together with our relation.
Now on the lecture about fetching the related models I've only shown you the simple example like this
using with so it just is it is just doing another askew all query to fetch all the comments that have
the blog post I.D. which is exactly as the blog post that we are fetching here using find or fail but
it doesn't have to be that simple.
What you can do is you can supply something additional to the query so let's select this comments name
and cut it and instead let's put an array where key would be the relation name and now you can additionally
R the closure which will get the query object.
And here you can add something extra to how this comments relation is being fetched together with the
blog post so you can modify the query here so we can return query and since we have added this latest
scope now we can do something like this.
So save the changes and let's see if you are still able to get the comments sorted.
So when you refresh our particular blog post you can see that now the comments are also properly sorted.
So let's see what happened if we didn't have this particular code.
So we just simply fudged the comments using simple school statement.
Now you can see comments aren't sorted at all.
They are in a random order but after adding this extra modifier to the query and using the local query
scope for comments we modified how they're fetched and now they're sorted by the newest date.
So that would be one way to solve it
so I will keep that for you for reference and comment that out.
But now let's also try a simpler solution so let's keep how it was before we made those changes so we
simply want the comments relation to be fetched.
So save the changes here and now go to the blog post model and what you can do is you can modify how
the relation is being fetched by default and you can modify this comments comments method that defines
the relation like that.
So you can ask Lara well to use this query scope when it is just fetching our relation by default.
So when using the latest here what will it do is actually you can see that we have removed this additional
closure from our controller and added this to the relation that we want latest comments by default.
And when you refresh you can see that they are now properly sorted and if we go to our blog post list
there is no issue with the only full group buy because no sorting is added when we use aggregate functions.
Now this might all seem a little bit complicated but don't worry.
This of course needs practice you need to practice and write a lot of this queries Coke's global and
local.
And this is what we'll do in the next lecture we'll try to write some more queries scope so you can
see how useful and powerful this feature can be in larval.